Hello and welcome back. Today we'll be
talking about joining on multiple fields.
To start off with this tutorial, I will
show you an example when it is necessary
to join on multiple fields and I will
show you what happens when you
accidentally forget about joining on
multiple fields and finally we will look
at how we can rectify the situation and
actually in fact join on several fields
to get the right result. So let's get
straight into it. Here we've got two
tables, table A and table B. Table A lists
the orders that were conducted in our
two stores which are north and south as
you can see, we had two orders in the
north store, order number one and order
number two and in the South store we had
only order number one and also list the
customers Mike, Jack and Susan. Table B a
lists the itemized description of those
orders. So we've also got the store
location, we've got the order number and
we've got item within their order and
the sale made on that item. So here you
can see right away that order number one
in the northern store had two items
sold, a laptop and a mouse or number two
had one item which was the monitor and
order number one in the southern store
had only one item which was a camera. So
now we want to connect the two tables and
basically what we're after is we want to
see how the sales that were made for
each of the customers the total sales
for each of the customers. So visually
you can see right away how that works,
but let's see how we can do it through
join. So if we were to go ahead and do a
left join so basically we want to
attach the table on the right, the table
the left and if we were to just do a
normal left join using one field we
would try to join on order number. So
here if we want to match order number in
the left table to the right table, it
will look something like this.
Order number one will be matched to
order number one in the first row of the
right table in the second row and in the
fourth row and as we can see that's
already incorrect because we're matching
order number one from the northern
store to order number one from the
southern store, you via this third match.
But let's let's see what happens
further down, so now if now order number
2 from the northern store will be matched
or number two that's because there's
only one or number two in both of these
tables and then order number one from
the southern store will actually be
matched to three rows in the second
table which are order number one,
or from the northern store then
the second item from order number one in
northern store and funny,
the only item from order number one in
the southern store. So in total the
results in table will look like this. We
will have three rows for North order
number 1, one row for North order number
two and three rows for South order
number one and as you can see this is a
mistake. There's an error because this
highly inflate our sales. It looks like
we've sold two laptops. It looks like
we've sold two mice and two cameras whereas
in fact that's not true. So joining on a
single field here can lead to incorrect
results. So let's see how we can fix that.
What we need to do and this you can see
naturally from these tables is we have to
include information about the store in
our join. So we know that the order
numbers are unique for each store and so
therefore if we include the store now
join then we will avoid this whole
problem. So let's see how that works at
the, on the top left here  encircled in
red you can see that we're joining on
order number from table A equals order
number from table B and store from table
A equals storefront table B. Let's see how
this works in fact. Here we've got the
North order number one being matched to
two rows in the second table so North
order number one which is the laptop and
North order number one which is the mouse
and that's correct. Next, order
number two from the northern store is
matched to only one row in the second
table which is the monitor for the
northern order number two which is also
correct and finally the southern number
one order is matched to only one row in
the second table because there's only
one row that contains both the word south
and the number one for the order
and that is the camera that Susan
want.
So now if we perform that join then the
final resulting table will look like
this and as you can see here the one row
in the table on the left was duplicated
to match the quantity of items which was
two items bought by Mike and so in total
you can see that this time we've got the
correct result. We can also assess how
much each customer has bought and there
are no mistakes because of an incorrect join
and so that was a good example of how to
use join and multiple fields and more
importantly why you need to do that in
certain cases to avoid errors. I hope you
enjoy today's tutorial and I look
forward to seeing you next time.